C K Kashyap
ckkashyap@gmail.com
BITS Pilani 1996 - 2000

Summary

	I have over 10 years of industrial experience in developing software ranging from device drivers to web applications. My experience includes 3 years of people management at IBM India Software Labs and driving multiple releases via a geographically distributed cross functional team. I've also had the opportunity to work at Microsoft and Sun Microsystems. I graduated from BITS Pilani in 2000 with MMS - Master of Management Studies. MMS used to be an integrated masters degree which was equivalent of BE + MBA.  While at BITS, I was part of the robotics lab and I did a semester long internship at Center for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics, Bangalore.

	I started with BASIC programming in 1990. I was fascinated with DOS games and in my quest to write fast games, I moved from BASIC to assembly and C. On the way, I got hooked on to Intel's protected mode and eventually operating system kernel programming. I have a few projects registered with github - <a href="https://github.com/ckkashyap/">https://github.com/ckkashyap/</a> - some of the interesting ones are, a port of minix3 microkernel so that it builds on Linux and a Ruby based VNC automation engine. More recently, Functional Programming has caught my fancy and I have been exploring Haskell for over two years now. I believe that functional programming is one of the ways of harnessing the multicore era. As a learning exercise, I'm working on a VNC based platform independent interactive graphics rendering library using Haskell - <a href="https://github.com/ckkashyap/Chitra">https://github.com/ckkashyap/Chitra</a>

	Professionally, I started my career with Seranova where I worked on Java based internet solutions. I switched jobs in the earlier part of my career mainly to get involved with embedded systems. In the later part, it was for looking for larger roles where I could contribute more with my deep understanding of software and exposure to a wide range of it. I am looking for a job where I can use my computer and management skills to solve larger problems; help people with leveraging various kinds of automations. In my earlier jobs, I've taken up doing tutorial classes a number of times and have received very positive feedback; I've also enjoyed such sessions a lot. It'll be great if such activities become part of my job portfolio.

Highlights

	- Filed a patent around image processing based computer UI automation, with a POC implementation. I did POC using VNC and OpenCV
	- Developed a Virtualization infrastructure using qemu/kvm and a bunch of ruby scripts that allowed folks in my team to quickly generate and work with virtual machines
	- Very interested in operating system development. Implemented multiple monolithic x86 kernels as hobby projects. Currently fascinated by microkernels and writing EDSLs for writing OS
	- Have been pursuing functional programming in Haskell
	- Managed product development teams through multiple major releases and fix-packs
	- Driven beta programs
	- Experienced in managing and co-ordinating globally distributed crossfunctional teams
	- Deployed innovative virtualization solutions with ESX and qemu for productivity enhancement
	- Have over 10 years of experience in software development with 3 years in people management
	- Graduated with integrated Masters degree in Management studies from BITS Pilani in the year 2000

Work experience details

Company: Yahoo
Designation: Principal Engineer - performance analysis and tuning
Duration: May 2010 - till date
Description: In this role, I'm currently working on exploring the performance of virtualization technologies such as Xen and OpenVZ. Prior to this, I've used Intel's statistical profiling tools to find performance optimization opportunities in a serving side application. I support the team with perl expertise for automations.

Company: IBM India Software Labs
Designation: Engineering Manager
Duration: July 2007 - May 2010
Description: As an engineering manager, I performance managed a team of 12 engineers. At IBM, this meant representing the team members in the team based decision making process twice a year. The role also involved representing the development team in the cross-functional release management meetings. I've also driven beta programs.

Company: IBM India Software Labs
Designation: Staff software engineer
Duration: December 2005 - July 2007
Description: I started out by leading a two member team that worked on Linux. Once the Linux issues were stabilized, I was moved to a larger role of leading the core modules of the product. This involved, hands on work and also mentoring a group of four members. This product is based on a couple of IDEs one which is eclipse based and the other which is Visual studio based. There are some native components that are in C++.

Company: Microsoft India Development Center, Hyderabad
Designation: Software design engineer
Duration: March 2005 - December 2005
Description: I worked on two products - Virtual PC and Virtual Server. I worked on two fixpack releases of Virtual PC and the release of Virtual Server 2005.

Company: Sun Microsystems
Designation: Staff software engineer
Duration: September 2004 - March 2005
Description: As a part of this team I was responsible to fix bugs reported on the Sun’s Webserver. Also, I was in charge of setting automated GAT(General Acceptance Test). Automated GAT involved writing Perl script to continuously check out the source, do a build and run the test suite. Since the repository was in a remote location, I had implemented a kind of ”double buffer” to speed up the process - I used to start the checkout of the source in a parallel location when the test was running on the checked out location. During the course of work here, I had opportunity to understand PKI.

Company: Insilica Semiconductors
Designation: Senior software engineer
Duration: October 2003 - September 2004
Description: The goal of this project was to implement the 802.11 protocol stack. During the development of the stack, the wireless hardware was still being fabricated. Therefore, ethernet was used to emulate the physical layer. Also, an extensive test-suite was designed and developed in perl to test the stack from a central controller.

Company: Virtusa
Designation: Software Engineer
Duration: March 2003 - October 2003
Description: This project involved writing an expression compiler for the Pega system’s rules engine. ANTLR (lex/yacc equivalent in the java world) was used for this purpose. Developing the front end of this project involved extensive use of java-script to dynamically make HTTP connections to the server and parsing the retrieved XMLs.

Company: Virtusa
Designation: Software Engineer
Duration: March 2002 - February 2003
Description: The goal of the EMC EDM Linux Port project was to port EDM (EMC's Data Manager) from Solaris to Linux. EDM contains 2.5 million lines of C and C++ programs. The UI part of EDM was in Java. The project was carried out in multiple phases. The first phase involved replacing the Solaris specific calls in the application source base with the POSIX equivalent. The second phase involved compiling the whole thing on Linux. The third phase involved executing the application and debugging on both the platforms.

Company: Seranova
Designation: Software Engineer
Duration: November 2001 - March 2002
Description: This project involved doing night shifts and waiting for client calls and resolving issues with SIF.

Company: Seranova
Designation: Software Engineer
Duration: July 2000 - October 2001
Description: Standard Implementation Framework (SIF) is the web contentmanagement utility developed for a fortune 500 American client. This utility was developed using Vignette’s Story-Server. Using the tool a person with no knowledge of HTML could create and update webcontent of the corporate web site. The tool allowed creation of page layouts on the fly. This was achieved using a JAVA applet. All the information about the layout and web contents were stored using XML.  I was a developer in one of the modules. My training period was till December 2000.

